Arcane Magic (Lore)
Max: 1

You either study one of the 8 Arcane Lores of Magic — Beasts, Death, Fire, Heavens, Metal, Shadow, Light, or Life — or practice a lesser known Lore, such as Hedgecraft or Necromancy. You may now memorise spells from your chosen Lore for the following cost in XP.

Number of Spells Currently Known XP Cost for a new spell
Intelligence Bonus × 1 100 XP
Intelligence Bonus × 2 200 XP
Intelligence Bonus × 3 300 XP
Intelligence Bonus × 4 400 XP
...and so on.

So, if your Intelligence Bonus is 4, it will cost you 100 XP for the first 4 spells, then 200 XP for the next 4, and so on. Full rules for learning new spells are provided in Chapter 8: Magic. Under normal circumstances, you may not learn more than one Arcane Magic (Lore) Talent. Further, you may not learn the Bless or Invoke Talents when you have the Arcane Magic Talent. You can unlearn this Talent for 100 XP, but will immediately lose all of your spells if you do so.



Criminal
Max: None
You are an active criminal making money from illegal sources,
and you’re not always quiet about it. For the purposes of securing
money, either when Earning during play or performing an
Income Endeavour, refer to the following table:
Career
Level
Bonus Money per time the
Talent is taken
1 +2d10 brass pennies
2 +1d10 silver shillings
3 +2d10 silver shillings
4 +1 gold crown
Because of your obvious criminal nature, others consider you
lower Status than them unless they also have the Criminal Talent,
where Status is compared as normal — perhaps you have gang
tattoos, look shifty, or are just rough around the edges, it’s your
choice. Because of this, local law enforcers are always suspicious
of you and suspect your motivations, which only gets worse the
more times you have this Talent, with the exact implications
determined by the GM. Lawbreakers without the Criminal
Talent earn significantly less coin but are not obviously the sort to
be breaking the law, so maintain their Status. With GM consent,
you may spend XP to remove levels of the Criminal Talent for the
same XP it cost to buy.


Furious Assault
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Melee when making extra attacks
Your blows follow one another in quick succession, raining down on your opponents with the fury of Ulric. Once per Round, if you hit an opponent in close combat, you may immediately spend an Advantage or your Move to make an extra attack (assuming you have your Move remaining).

Gregarious
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Gossip Tests with travellers
You just like talking to other folk and it seems they like talking
to you. You may reverse any failed Gossip Test if this allows the
Test to succeed.

Gunner
Max: Dexterity Bonus
You can reload blackpowder weapons with practiced ease. Add
SL equal to your level in Gunner to any Extended Test to reload
a Blackpowder weapon.

Hardy
Max: Toughness Bonus
You gain a permanent addition to your Wounds, equal to your
Toughness Bonus. If your Toughness Bonus should increase, then
the number of Wounds Hardy provides also increases.

Hatred (Group)
Max: Willpower Bonus
Tests: Willpower (Resist Group)
You are consumed with hatred for something in the Old World, as
described on page 190. Each time you take this Talent you develop
hatred for a new group. Examples you could take include: Beastmen,
Greenskins, Monsters, Outlaws, Sigmarites, Undead, Witches.

Holy Hatred
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Your prayers drip with the hatred you feel for your blasphemous
enemies. You deal +1 Damage with Miracles for each level in this
Talent.

Holy Visions
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Intuition Tests when on holy ground
You clearly see the great works of the Gods all around you. You
automatically know when you enter Holy Ground, and may take
an Intuition Test to receive visions (often obscure, and seen through
the paradigm of your cult or individual belief-system) regarding
the local area if significant events have occurred there in the past.

Hunter’s Eye
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Any Test to trail or capture game
You are a skilled hunter and know all the best techniques to
find game. When travelling through well-stocked lands, you
are automatically assumed to be able to hunt down enough
game to feed yourself and a number of others equal to your
level in Hunter’s Eye, so long as you have time and the correct
equipment. You may secure more food in addition to this using
the normal rules for foraging (see page 127).

Impassioned Zeal
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Charm when speaking about your cause
When you talk about your cause, case, or religion, your words fill
with passion and fervent zeal. You may double your Fellowship
for the purposes of determining the number of people influenced
by your Public Speaking (see page 142) when talking about your
cause.

Implacable
Max: Toughness Bonus
It takes a lot to finish you off. You can ignore the Wound loss
from a Bleeding Condition. Each level in this Talent lets you
ignore the Wound loss from an extra Bleeding Condition.

In-fighter
Max: Dexterity Bonus
Tests: Melee when in-fighting, or to enter in-fighting
You are skilled at drawing in close to an opponent. You suffer no
penalties for fighting against an opponent with a longer weapon
than you. Further, if you use the optional rules for In-fighting (see
page 297), gain a bonus of +10 to hit your opponent.

Inspiring
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Leadership during war
Your rousing words and pleas can turn the tide of a battle. Refer
to the following table to see how many people you can now
influence with your Leadership Skill (see page 126) when at war.
Talent Taken Number of soldiers influenced
1 As normal × 5
2 As normal × 10
3 As normal × 20
4 As normal × 50
5 As normal × 100
6 As normal × 200
7 As normal × 500
8 As normal × 1000
9 All who can hear your inspiring voice
Example: Abbess Birgitte van der Hoogenband’s monastery is
under attack by Greenskins, and things are going badly. So, she
decides to bolster her soldiers’ spirits with a Leadership Test,
granting them +10 to all Psychology Tests. Her Leadership Test
scores 3 SL. Given she has a Fellowship Bonus of 6, and she
can influence her Fellowship Bonus + SL of her soldiers using
Leadership, she bolsters 9 soldiers. However, as she has Inspiring 3,
that number is multiplied by 20, meaning 180 of her soldiers take
heart from her screamed encouragement to, ‘HOLD THE LINE!’

Instinctive Diction
Maximum: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Language (Magick) when casting
You instinctively understand the language of Magick, and are
capable of articulating the most complex phrases rapidly without
error. You do not suffer a Miscast if you roll a double on a
successful Language (Magick) Test.

Invoke (Divine Lore)
Max: 1
You are blessed by one of the Gods and can empower one of your
Cult’s Miracles. Further, you may purchase extra miracles for 100
XP per miracle you currently know. So, if you already know 3
miracles, your next miracle costs 300 XP to purchase. Full rules
for learning new miracles are provided in Chapter 7: Religion and
Belief. Under normal circumstances, you may not learn more than
one Invoke (Divine Lore) Talent. Further, you may not learn the
Petty Magic or Arcane Magic Talents when you have the Invoke
Talent. You can unlearn this Talent for 100 XP, but will lose all
of your miracles if you do so, and will also garner the extreme
disfavour of your God, with effects determined by your GM.

Iron Jaw
Max: Toughness Bonus
Tests: Endurance tests to resist Stunned
You are made of sturdy stuff and can weather even the strongest
blows. Whenever you gain one or more Stunned Conditions, you
may make an immediate Challenging (+0) Endurance Test to
not take one of them, with each SL removing an extra Stunned
Condition.

Iron Will
Max: Willpower Bonus
Tests: Cool Tests to oppose Intimidate
You have an indomitable will of iron, and will never willingly
bow down before another. Use of the Intimidate skill does not
cause Fear in you, and will not stop you speaking out against the
intimidating party.

Jump Up
Max: 1
You are hard to keep down. You may perform a Challenging (+0)
Agility Test to immediately regain your feet whenever you gain
a Prone Condition. This Athletics Test is often modified by the
Strength behind the blow that knocks you down: for every +10
Strength the blow has over your Toughness, you suffer a penalty
of –10 to the Athletics Test, and vice versa .

Kingpin
Max: 1
You have earned an air of respectability despite your nefarious
ways. You may ignore the Status loss of the Criminal Talent.

Lightning Reflexes
Max: 1
You gain a permanent +5 bonus to your starting Agility
Characteristic (this does not count towards your Advances).

Linguistics
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Language (All)
You have a natural affinity for languages. Given a month’s
exposure to any Language, you count the associated Language
Skill as a Basic Skill with a successful Intelligence Test (which
can be attempted once per month). Note: Linguistics only works
for languages used to frequently communicate with others, so
does not work with Language (Magick).

Lip Reading
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Perception Tests concerning this Talent
You can tell what people are saying by simply watching their lips;
you do not need to hear what they are saying. If you have an
unobstructed view of the speaker’s lower face, you can attempt a
Perception Test to understand what they are saying.

Luck
Max: Fellowship Bonus
They say when you were born, Ranald smiled. Your maximum
Fortune Points now equal your current Fate points plus the
number of times you’ve taken Luck.

Magical Sense
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Intuition Tests to detect Wizards
You are able to sense the Winds of Magic in others. You may
attempt an Average (+20) Intuition Test whenever you encounter
a spellcaster. If you pass, you sense the target is a witch. Further,
if you score an Astounding Success (+6), can also determine the
target’s highest Channelling Specialisation.

Magic Resistance
Max: 1
You are resistant to magic. You must Oppose any incoming
spell with your Willpower, just as if you were a spellcaster using
Language (Magick) to dispel (see page 237). Further, you may
never learn the Arcane Magic, Bless, Invoke, Petty Magic, or
Witch! Talents.

Magnum Opus
Max: None
You are an undisputed master in your field, able to create work
of such incredible complexity others can but sit back and marvel
at your genius. Each time you take this Talent you may create a
single, extraordinary work of art with one of your Art or Trade
Skills. This work is unrivalled in your field, a unique piece that
will always impress, giving bonuses as determined by the GM,
most commonly to Fellowship Tests from those who have
witnessed your astounding work. Selling the piece will net you
at least ten times its normal value, and sometimes significantly
more than this.

Marksman
Max: 1
You gain a permanent +5 bonus to your starting Ballistic Skill
(this does not count towards your Advances).

Master of Disguise
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Entertain (Acting) when being someone else
You are an expert at taking on the appearance and mannerisms
of others. With nothing but posture changes, face twisting,
and careful use of appropriate clothing, you no longer look like
yourself without having to use a Disguise Kit.

Master Orator
Max: Fellowship Bonus
You are skilled at firing up crowds. You gain a gain a SL bonus
equal to your levels of Master Orator to any Charm Test when
Public Speaking before a crowd.

Master Tradesman (Trade)
Max: Dexterity Bonus
Tests: Any appropriate Extended Trade Tests
You are exceptionally skilled at your specified Trade skill. You
reduce the required SL of any Extended Test using your Trade
Skill by the level of your Master Tradesman Talent.

Menacing
Max: Strength Bonus
Tests: Intimidate
You have an imposing presence. When using the Intimidate
Skill, gain a SL bonus equal to your levels of Menacing.

Mimic
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Entertain (Acting) Tests where accents are important
You have a good ear for accents and dialects, and can reproduce
them accurately. You may replicate any accent you are exposed
to for at least a day with an Initiative Test; this Test may be
attempted once per day. Once passed, you may always mimic the
accent, and locals will believe you to be one of their own.

Night Vision
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Perception tests in low-light conditions
You can see very well in natural darkness. Assuming you have
at least a faint source of light (such as starlight, moonlight, or
bioluminescence) you can see clearly for 20 yards per level of
Night Vision. Further, you can extend the effective illumination
distance of any light sources by 20 yards per level of Night Vision.

Nimble Fingered
Max: 1
You gain a permanent +5 bonus to your starting Dexterity (this
does not count towards your Advances).

Noble Blood
Max: 1
Tests: Any Test influenced by your Status
You are either born into the nobility, or otherwise elevated to it
by in-game events. Assuming you are dressed appropriately, you
are always considered of higher Status than others unless they also
have the Noble Blood Talent, where Status is compared as normal.

Nose for Trouble
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Any Test to spot Troublemakers
You are used to getting into, and preferably out of, trouble. You
may attempt an Intuition Test to spot those seeking to cause
trouble or seeking to cause you harm, even if normally you would
not be allowed a Test (because of Talents or a Spell, for example).
This Test will likely be Opposed if others are hiding, and the GM
may prefer to take this Test on your behalf in secret so you do
not know the results should you fail. If any troublemakers you
spot start combat, you may ignore any Surprised Condition they
would normally inflict.

Numismatics
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Evaluate to establish the worth of coins
You are well versed with the different coinage of the Old World,
and are adept at determining their value. You can judge the true
value of a coin by experience alone, not even requiring a Test.
Further, you can identify forged coins with a Simple Evaluate
Test; it is never Opposed by the SL of the Forger.

Old Salt
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Sail (any Sea-worthy Vessels)
You are an experienced seaman, and are very used to sea life. You
can ignore all negative modifiers to Tests at sea derived from poor
weather, rolling ships, and similar. Further, you count as two seamen
towards the minimum number of crew to pilot a sea-going vessel.

Orientation
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Navigation
You have an instinctual feel for direction. You automatically
know which direction is north with a glimpse at the stars, trees,
or whatever other signs you are familiar with.

Panhandle
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Charm (Begging)
You are a skilled beggar, able to get even the most jaded individual
to contribute to your cause. You can perform a Charm Test every
half hour when Begging, not every hour (see page 120).

Perfect Pitch
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Entertain (Sing), Language (Tonal Languages, such as
Elthárin, Cathayan, and Magick)
You have perfect pitch, able to replicate notes perfectly and
identify them without even making a Test. Further, add Entertain
(Sing) to any Career you enter; if it is already in your Career, you
may instead purchase the Skill for 5 XP fewer per Advance.

Petty Magic
Max: 1
You have the spark to cast magic within you and have mastered
techniques to control it at a basic level. When you take this
Talent, you manifest, and permanently memorise, a number of
spells equal to your Willpower Bonus. You can learn extra Petty
spells for the following cost in XP.
No. of Petty Spells Currently Known XP Cost for a new spell
Willpower Bonus × 1 50 XP
Willpower Bonus × 2 100 XP
Willpower Bonus × 3 150 XP
Willpower Bonus × 4 200 XP
...and so on.
So, if your Willpower Bonus is 3, it will cost you 50 XP for the
first 3 spells, then 100 XP for the next 3, and so on. Full rules for
learning new spells are provided in Chapter 8: Magic.

Pharmacist
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Trade (Apothecary)
You are highly skilled at pharmacy, better able than most to
make pills, ointments, unguents, oils, creams, and more. You may
reverse any failed Trade (Apothecary) test if this allows the Test
to succeed.

Pilot
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Row or Sail Tests while navigating unsure waters You are skilled at leading vessels through dangerous waters. If you fail a Test to pass through dangerous waters, you may reverse the result if it will score a success; however, if you do so, you may not score more than +1 SL as you catch the incoming danger at the last moment.

Public Speaker
Max: Fellowship Bonus
You are a skilled orator and know how to work large groups of
people. Refer to the following table to see how many people you
can now influence with your Charm Skill (see page 120) when
Public Speaking.
Talent Taken Number influenced
1 As normal × 5
2 As normal × 10
3 As normal × 20
4 As normal × 50
5 As normal × 100
6 As normal × 200
7 As normal × 500
8 As normal × 1000
9 All who can hear your golden voice

Pure Soul
Max: Willpower Bonus
Your soul is pure, quite resistant to the depredations of Chaos. You may gain extra Corruption points equal to your level of Pure Soul before having to Test to see if you become corrupt.

Rapid Reload
Max: Dexterity Bonus
You can reload ranged weapons with practiced ease. You add SL equal to your level in Rapid Reload to any Test to reload a ranged weapon.

Reaction Strike
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Initiative Tests concerning this Talent
Your fast reactions have allowed you to fell many opponents before they have even swung their blades. When you are Charged, you may attempt a Challenging (+0) Initiative Test to gain an immediate Free Attack outside the normal turn sequence. This attack is resolved with whatever weapon you are carrying in your primary hand. You may make as many Reaction Strikes in a Round as you have levels in this Talent, but can only attack each individual charger once each.

Read/Write
Max: 1
You are one of the rare literate individuals in the Old World. You are assumed to be able to read and write (if appropriate) all of the Languages you can speak.

Relentless
Max: Agility Bonus
When you have your mind set on a target, there is nothing anyone can do to stop you reaching them. If you use Advantage when Disengaging, you may keep a number of Advantage equal to your level of Relentless. Further, you may use Advantage to Disengage even if you have lower Advantage than your opponents.

Resistance (Threat)
Max: Toughness Bonus
Tests: All those to resist the associated Threat
Your strong constitution allows you to more readily survive a specific threat. You may automatically pass the first Test to resist the specified threat, such as Magic, Poison, Disease, Mutation, every session. If SL is important, use your Toughness Bonus as SL for the Test.

Resolute
Max: Strength Bonus
You launch into attacks with grim determination. Add your level of Resolute to your Strength Bonus when you Charge.

Reversal
Max: Weapon Skill Bonus
Tests: Melee when defending
You are used to desperate combats, able to turn even the direst circumstances to your Advantage. If you win an Opposed Melee Test, instead of gaining +1 Advantage, you may take all your opponent’s Current Advantage. If you do this, you do not cause any Damage, even if it is your Turn in the Round.

Riposte
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Melee when defending
Conforming to ‘the best defence is offence’, you respond to an incoming attack with a lightning-fast counterstrike of your own. If your weapon has the Fast quality, you may cause Damage when you are attacked, just as if it was your Action. You can Riposte a number of attacks per round equal to your Riposte level.

River Guide
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Any Lore Test concerning river matters
You know all the tricks for navigating dangerous rivers. You don’t need to Test for passing through dangerous stretches of water until the Difficulty for doing so is –10 or lower — you automatically pass all Tests easier than this. Further, if you have the appropriate Lore (Local) Skill, you need never Test for navigating dangerous waters — you are assumed to know the route through.

Robust
Max: Toughness Bonus
You are as tough as old boots and just soak up damage. You reduce all incoming Damage by an extra +1 per time you have taken the Robust Talent, even if the Damage cannot normally be reduced, but still suffer a minimum of 1 Wound from any Damage source.

Roughrider
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Ride (Horse) when in combat
You are at home in the saddle in even the most difficult of circumstances, and know how to get the best out of your mount during conflict. Assuming you have the Ride skill, you can direct your mount to take an Action, not just a Move, without a Ride test.

Rover
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Stealth Tests in a Rural environment
You are at home roaming the wild places. When using Stealth in a rural environment, bystanders do not get passive Perception Tests to detect you; they can only spot you if they are specifically on look-out, or watching for hidden spies.

Savant (Lore)
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Lore (chosen Lore)
You are exceptionally learned, and have a significant degree of specialised knowledge in a single field of study. You automatically know a number of pieces of correct information equal to you Savant (Lore) level about a relevant issue without having to test your Lore Skill. Testing, as always, will provide yet more information as normal as determined by the GM.

Savvy
Max: 1
You gain a permanent +5 bonus to your starting Intelligence Characteristic (this does not count towards your Advances).

Scale Sheer Surface
Max: Strength Bonus
Tests: Climb
You are an exceptional climber. You can attempt to climb even seemingly impossible surfaces such as sheer fortifications, ice shelves, plastered walls, and similar, and you ignore any penalties to Climb Tests derived from the difficulty of the surface climbed.

Schemer
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Intelligence Tests concerning this Talent
You are a master of politics and see conspiracy around every corner. Once per session, you may ask the GM one question regarding a political situation or entangled web of social connections; the GM will perform a secret Intelligence Test and provide you some observations regarding the situation based upon your SL.

Sea Legs
Max: Toughness Bonus
Tests: All those taken to resist Sea Sickness
You are used to the rolling motion of the oceans, and are very unlikely to get sea sick, even in the worst storms. Under normal conditions at sea, you need never Test to see if you become Sea Sick. At other times (such as a storm, or a magically induced bout of Sea Sickness), you can ignore any penalties to Tests to avoid Sea Sickness.

Seasoned Traveller
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Any Lore Test concerning local detail
You are an inquisitive soul who has travelled far and wide, learning all manner of local information. Add Lore (Local) to any Career you enter; if it is already in Career, you may purchase the Skill, both times — a different Speciality each time, such as Altdorf, Vorbergland, or Ubersreik — for 5 XP fewer per Advance.

Second Sight
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Any Test to detect the Winds of Magic You can perceive the shifting Winds of Magic that course from the Chaos Gates at the poles of the world. You now have the Sight (see page 233).

Secret Identity
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Entertain (Acting) Tests to support your secret identities You maintain a secret identity that allows you to appear richer, or perhaps poorer, than you actually are. With GM permission, choose any one Career. As long as you are dressed appropriately, you may use the Social Status of the chosen Career you masquerade as rather than your own for modifying Fellowship Tests, and can even ignore the Criminal Talent. However, maintaining this identity will require Entertain (Acting) rolls when you encounter those who may recognise your falsehood. You may create a new Secret Identity for each level you have in this Talent.

Shadow
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Any Test involving Shadowing You are skilled at following people without being spotted. You may use the Shadowing rules on page 130 without doing a Combined Test. Instead you test against just your Perception or your Stealth Skill, whichever is higher.

Sharp
Max: 1
You gain a permanent +5 bonus to your starting Initiative Characteristic (this does not count towards your Advances).

Sharpshooter
Max: 1
You can make aimed shots of exceptional accuracy. You ignore any negative Difficulty modifiers to Ranged Tests due to the size of your target.

Shieldsman
Max: Strength Bonus
Tests: Any Test to defend with a shield
You are skilled at using your shield to manoeuvre others in combat so you can take advantage of a desperate situation. When using a Shield to defend, you gain Advantage equal to the number of levels you have in Shieldsman if you lose the Opposed Test.

Sixth Sense
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Intuition Tests involving your Sixth Sense
You get a strange feeling when you are threatened, and can react accordingly. The GM may warn you if you are walking into danger; this will normally come after a secret Intuition Test on your behalf. Further, you may ignore Surprise if you pass an Intuition Test.

Slayer
Max: 1
When determining Damage use your opponent’s Toughness Bonus as your Strength Bonus if it is higher; always determine this before any other rules modify your Strength or Strength Bonus. Further, if your target is larger than you, and your score a Critical (see page 159), multiply all melee Damage you cause by the number of steps larger your target is (so, 2 steps = ×2, 3 steps = ×3, and so on); this multiplication is calculated after all modifiers are applied. See page 341 for more about Size .

Small
Max: 1
You are much shorter than most folk in the Old World. The full rules for different Sizes are found in Chapter 12: Bestiary on page 341.

Sniper
Max: 4
Tests: Ranged (Long–Extreme Range)
Distance is of no import to your shooting skills, and you are just as adept at picking off far away targets as those nearby. You suffer no penalties for shooting at Long range, and half the penalties for Extreme range.

Speedreader
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Research and Language Tests where speed of reading is important
You read books at a voracious pace. You may reverse a failed Research Test (make singular if previous suggestion is taken) if this will grant success. If the speed at which you read is important during combat, a successful Language Test lets you read and fully comprehend a number of pages per Round equal to your SL plus Speedreader level (minimum of 1, even if you fail the Test).

Sprinter
Max: Strength Bonus
Tests: Athletics Tests concerning Running
You are a swift runner. Your Movement Attribute counts as 1 higher when Running.

Step Aside
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Dodge Tests to activate this Talent
You are skilled at being where enemy weapons are not. If you use Dodge to defend against an incoming attack and win the Opposed Test, you may move up to 2 yards as you dive away, and no longer count as Engaged. None of your opponents will gain a Free Attack when you do this.
